---
---
[[docker-and-selinux]]
Docker and SELinux
------------------

The interaction between SELinux policy and Docker is focused on two
concerns: protection of the host, and protection of containers from one
another.

[[selinux-labels-for-docker]]
SELinux Labels for Docker
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

SELinux labels consist of 4 parts:

---------------------
User:Role:Type:level.
---------------------

SELinux controls access to processes by Type and Level. Docker offers
two forms of SELinux protection: type enforcement and multi-category
security (MCS) separation.

[[type-enforcement]]
Type Enforcement
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Type enforcement is a kind of enforcement in which rules are based on
process type. It works in the following way. The default type for a
confined container process is svirt_lxc_net_t. This type is permitted to
read and execute all files "types" under /usr and most types under /etc.
svirt_lxc_net_t is permitted to use the network but is not permitted to
read content under /var, /home, /root, /mnt ... svirt_lxc_net_t is
permitted to write only to files labeled svirt_sandbox_file_t and
docker_var_lib_t. All files in a container are labeled by default as
svirt_sandbox_file_t. Access to docker_var_lib_t is permitted in order
to allow the use of docker volumes.

[[multi-category-security-mcs-separation]]
Multi-Category Security (MCS) Separation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

MCS Separation is sometimes called svirt. It works in the following way.
A unique value is assigned to the "level" field of the SELinux label of
each container. By default each container is assigned the MCS Level
equivalent to the PID of the docker process that starts the container.
In OpenShift, this could be overridden to generate an MCS Level based on
the UID. This field can also be used in Multi-Level Security (MLS)
environments where it is desirable to set the field to "TopSecret" or
"Secret".

The standard targeted policy includes rules that dictate that the MCS
Labels of the process must "dominate" the MCS label of the target. The
target is usually a file. The MCS Label usually looks something like
s0:c1,c2 Such a label would "Dominate" files labeled s0, s0:c1, s0:c2,
s0:c1,c2. It would not, however, dominate s0:c1,c3. All MCS Labels are
required to use two Categories. "s0:c1" and "s0:c2" are ill-formed, and
are not MCS Labels. This guarantees that no two containers can have the
same MCS Label by default. Files with s0 (Most files on the system) are
not blocked by MCS: access to such files, governed by Type Enforcement,
would still be enforced.

[[more-information]]
More Information
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For more information on SELinux see this article for OpenSource.com:

http://opensource.com/business/13/11/selinux-policy-guide

(It's a coloring book that explains SELinux!)
